Let's examine this scenario.
What if your organization maintains an information security policy?
These require to be updated one time every year.
The purpose of that,
is to ensure that accurate information is provided to every employee.
What's the time component here?
What's one time per year?
What's the function? The function is to update the policy.
So what about our measurement options?
What makes sense given the information that you have?
Could you check periodically throughout the year to make sure that the policy is updated?
Sure. Could you check one time
near the end of the year to make sure the policy was updated?
You could do that also. There are probably others that you can think of.
Now in that previous example,
we wanted to make sure that the policy was updated.
But what if it wasn't?
Remember that the overall objectives of control
assessment include: improving security posture,
assessing our existing tools,
and then addressing compliance requirements.
So when a control fails your test,
you have to take action.
Typically, that comes in the form of reporting and remediation plans.
There are three critical tasks that governance
professionals must complete when measuring control effectiveness.
The first, we just talked about: designing an effective measurement strategy.
The second, is maintaining a comprehensive schedule
for all the measurement activities you plan to perform throughout the year.
Without that list, you might fail to complete some of the required testing objectives.
Then third, you must maintain a list of all of the tests outcomes.
The reason for recording the test results,
is so that you can report outcomes to stakeholders and then work
together to develop plans of action to remediate any deficiencies.
Just two quick notes here, test results,
especially failures, represent risks to your organization.
You want to make sure that your plans of action are closely guarded,
and really only shared with appropriate stakeholders.
Then second, well, we haven't yet discussed risk management.
Remediation plans for control failure can actually be
combined with remediation plans resulting from risk management activities.